A question from a message by user Quỷ
Lệ: I once heard my teacher say that an
Arhat never claims to have
attained Arhatship, and only when someone
higher than an Arhat is known to
be an Arhat. In the question-and-answer section of the
Sutra of the Great Arhats, Venerable Minan asked the
monk Nāgasena whether he had attained Arhatship.
Nāgasena did not say whether he had
attained it or not; he only replied
that if he had eradicated greed,
hatred, and delusion, then he had attained Arhatship. If he had
not eradicated greed, hatred, and delusion, then he had
not become an Arhat. The
Buddha, who could be called a Great
Arhat, why did he claim to be the supreme being, the
only one, claiming to have attained
absolute enlightenment and Buddhahood?
Why did he say that an Arhat never
claimed to be an Arhat, yet
he himself said it? Dear audience, I will
answer this question first: Why did the
Buddha, a Great Arhat, make such a
declaration? The answer is: Because
he had the
Dharma.  His teachings at that time were not yet known to anyone. He
proclaimed that his teachings belonged to the truth
of the
world, to all beings, to humans and gods. No one knew
the truth, so
he spoke it. He had observed
everything; there was no one left for him to
learn from, so he declared that he had attained
Arhatship. Did the assembly rejoice at
this? Because he knew that he
had the teachings to save sentient beings from suffering.
But why
don't the Arhats say they have attained
Arhatship? Because if they said they had attained
Arhatship, they would
only be transmitting the Buddha's teachings,
right?
Then there are many imposters who
read the Buddha's books, who haven't attained enlightenment, who only read
a little, and yet claim to have
attained Arhatship, right? There's no one to
verify it, because the
Dharma is only the teachings of the
Buddha. There is only one Dharma
of the Buddha, the Dharma that saves the tiger.
Can the assembly understand this point?
Because those who have attained Arhatship know
this clearly. Therefore, they themselves...  I would
never claim to have attained
Arhatship because if one is an Arhat, they don't cause suffering to
themselves or others, right? If
someone claims to have attained Arhatship, then some
evil, ordinary person might also claim to have attained
Arhatship. What can verify that? Because what
I say is the same as what others say,
because I'm just repeating what the Buddha said.
Yen is saying this, can the general public understand it? That's why
Arhats themselves
know that one should
n't claim to have attained Arhatship because claiming to have attained it
will harm oneself and all sentient
beings. Because one ca
n't say anything beyond what the Buddha said. That's why
Nagarjuna only said, "If Nagarjuna
eliminates greed, hatred, and delusion, then Nagarjuna becomes an Arhat."
That means only oneself knows. If
not, then one is not yet an Arhat. And
if what I say aligns with
the truth and is good, then you should follow it.
You don't need to know whether I
am an Arhat or
not. It is because of the wisdom of
Arhats that the Buddha said that
if in the future...  If someone claims to have attained
Arhatship, that person is a demon king
because the Arhats themselves
know not to speak about it, right?
It's not that the Buddha forbade it. The Buddha
only explained the cause and effect of things as they are.
Those who have attained enlightenment
know the benefits
of revealing their enlightenment and the harm of doing so, so
they do
n't speak. Therefore, all Arhats don't speak about it
themselves, using
their Arhat wisdom to observe
cause and effect, benefits and harm, good and evil. That's why they don't speak.
So, all Arhats don't speak about it.
Even during the time of the Buddha, Arhats never spoke about it themselves; it was always the
Buddha who spoke about it. The
Buddha said, "This person has attained great Arhatship,"
but they never claimed to have done
it. So, from the time of the Buddha until
now, anyone who claims to have attained Arhatship is
someone who doesn't know about benefits and harm,
good and evil, and doesn't yet have the
heart to understand.  Those who haven't yet understood the
law of cause and effect are
called evil demons. Because when one attains
Arhatship, they can
distort this and that,
saying that besides the teachings of the Buddha,
we only learn one
single teaching, the teachings of the Buddha, and
no other teachings.
When we learn the teachings of the
Buddha, we also follow
His words, we hear that it is good and
brings benefit to ourselves and
others, then we follow and act accordingly. [
Music]
[Applause]
[Music]